Multisig README & folder/files restructuring (#219)
paritytech/txwrapper-core: packages/txwrapper-examples/docs/MULTISIG.md

# Multisig example

## Description

> The multisig example code shows how to create a Multisig account and execute a transaction from this newly created account to send some funds to another address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The multisig example code shows how to create a Multisig account, fund it and execute a transaction from this newly created account to send some funds to another address.
```

### Steps
More specifically the code implements the following steps :

> 1. Creates a new Multisig account from the addresses of :

Reviewer: Suggestion to mention here that these 3 are the signatories from this point on.

   - Alice
   - Bob 
   - Charlie
2. Sends some initial funds from Alice's account to the Multisig account (in order to be able to execute a transaction from the Multisig account on the next step)
3. Make a transaction from the Multisig account that sends funds from the MultiSig account to Eve's account by implementing 2 types of actions :
   - Approve the call
   - Execute the call

## Setup environment

> 1) Fetch the latest Substrate or Polkadot/Kusama node from the above link. Follow instructions to build it, and start a dev chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) Fetch the latest Substrate or Polkadot/Kusama node from the above link. Follow instructions to build it, and start a dev chain :
```

    ```bash
    target/release/polkadot --dev
    ```

> 2) Install dependencies and build the JS target

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) Install dependencies and build the JS target :
```

    ```bash
    # from this repos root directory run
    yarn install && yarn build

    # change to the examples directory
    cd packages/txwrapper-examples

    # build the JS target
    # NOTE: This does not need to be run unless you have made changes to the example as the package will already be built via the command that ran from the root directory above.
    yarn run build
    ```

> 3) Run the example script (see [src/multisig.ts](src/multisig.ts)). It will interact with your local node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3) Run the example script (see [src/multisig.ts](src/multisig.ts)). It will interact with your local node :
```

![multisig-output-cli1-screenshot](images/multisig-output-cli1.png)
![multisig-output-cli2-screenshot](images/multisig-output-cli2.png)
![multisig-output-cli3-screenshot](images/multisig-output-cli3.png)
![multisig-output-cli4-screenshot](images/multisig-output-cli4.png)

## Polkadot{.js} apps

We can also check the result in the [explorer](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=ws%3A%2F%2F127.0.0.1%3A9944#/explorer) of Polkadot{.js} apps  [menu <em>"Network"</em> > submenu <em>"Explorer"</em>]

### Expected Output in the Polkadot{.js} apps UI

![multisig-output-pjs-apps-screenshot](images/multisig-output-pjs-apps.png)

[**OPTIONAL**] We can also create the multisig account through p-js apps to be able to see it in the list of [accounts](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=ws%3A%2F%2F127.0.0.1%3A9944#/accounts) (and also see the change in balances) in the UI by following the steps below :
- Polkadot{.js} apps > Accounts Tab > click on Multisig button
- Select the accounts of Alice, Bob And Charlie from the list as the signatories
- Choose a name for your Multisig account, eg. `multi`
- Click the "Create" button

> NOTE: The example is working without this step since we are creating the multisig account also from the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The example code already creates the multisig account  so this step is not considered.
```

> ## Key Takeways from the Multisig example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Key Takeaways 
```

- In the `asMulti` call we pass the **hash of the call data** (use of the `method` function)

### Nonces
The nonce of the `approveAsMulti` and `asMulti` calls depend on the account that is signing the call and it is not attached to the nonce of the multisig account.

That is why we observe the following :
- In the `approveAsMulti` the nonce is set to 1 since it will be signed by Alice (and Alice already submitted a transaction earlier with nonce=0).
- In the `asMulti` the nonce is set to 0 since it will be signed by Bob and Bob has not submitted any other transactions until now.

### `otherSignatories`parameter
In the `approveAsMulti` and `asMulti` calls we need to update the array that we pass in the `otherSignatories` parameter so it excludes the signing account every time. 
1. The `approveAsMulti` call is signed by Alice so the array passed in `otherSignatories` has to exclude Alice's address (`otherSignatoriesSortedExAlice`)
2. Accordingly the `asMulti` call is signed by Bob so the array passed in `otherSignatories` has to exclude Bob's address (`otherSignatoriesSortedExBob`)

### Timepoint of `approveAsMulti` & Storage

> - In the `maybeTimepoint` parameter of the `asMulti` call we need to pass the block height and index of the `approveAsMulti` call. In order to to retrieve that dynamically we need to :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the `maybeTimepoint` parameter of the `asMulti` call we need to pass the block height and index of the `approveAsMulti` call. In order to to retrieve this information from the node chain storage we need to :
```

  1. Create the Storage key of our Multisig Storage item

>   2. Make an RPC request with the `state_getStorage` endpoint (using the Storage key from step 1 to retrieve the Multisig storage data from the chain. This data is retrieved as a SCALE-encoded byte array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  2. Make an RPC request with the `state_getStorage` endpoint (using the Storage key from step 1 to retrieve the relevant Multisig storage data from the chain. This data is retrieved as a SCALE-encoded byte array.
```

  3. Create the Multisig type by using the result from the RPC call and the registry
  4. Get the `height` and `index` of the timepoint by decoding the retrieved data using the Multisig type

- In order to create the Storage key in step 1 we follow the schema below :
	
      ```bash
      Twox128("Multisig") + Twox128("Multisigs") + Twox64(multisigAddress) + multisigAddress + Blake128(multisigCallHash) + multisigCallHash

>       ```

Reviewer: I would add a note here explaining that we know that this is the right schema by consulting the source code for the pallet storage (in this specific case, this is at line 161  in   https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/blob/7d233c2446b5a60662400a0a4bcfb78bb3b79ff7/frame/multisig/src/lib.rs#L161

Author: Added it by referring to the `Multisigs` storage item under the `Multisig` pallet. Omitted the link in case the code changes but thank you for adding it here so I could double check that we are referring to the same item.
